Hey there! Welcome to the Paws at Data Science Hangout. I'm Libby Herron, and this is a recording
of our weekly community call that happens every Thursday at 12 p.m. U.S. Eastern Time.
If you are not joining us live, you miss out on the amazing chat that's going on,
so find the link in the description where you can add our call to your calendar and come hang out
with the most supportive, friendly, and funny data community you'll ever experience. I can't wait to
see you there. I am so excited to be joined by our featured leader today, Harvey Lieberman,
Associate Director of Data Science at Novartis. Hello Harvey, how are you doing today? I'm doing
good, thanks Libby, thanks for having me. Oh we're so happy to have you here. If you are a part of
our pharma community, you probably already know Harvey. Harvey, I would love it if you could
introduce yourself, tell us a little bit about yourself and your background, and what you like
to do for fun. Sure, so my name is Harvey Lieberman. I work in the pharma industry,
have done for 27 years now, it's a long time, and I'm a data scientist. I've worked in both
the discovery setting and the development setting, and I'm sure we'll go into a little bit
about that as we chat a little bit more. For fun, I guess I'm what you would call
a little bit of a geek, because I like to do data science for fun as well as for work.
I also have three kids and spend a lot of time with them, shuttling them around,
doing different things, and so on. But yeah, that's pretty much it for me.
I think that you'll find that you're in a big group of other geeks.
We probably identify with you. I would love it if you could explain just a little bit of context
for us so that we can all ask questions that are informed by knowledge. What is Novartis?
What does Novartis do? And what do you do at Novartis?
Okay, so Novartis is a big pharma company. I have many products out there. You've probably
seen lots of ads on TV with regards to many of the products. I joined Novartis five years ago,
and I'm working in a biostatistics group in drug development, in early drug development.
So the role that the group that I'm in has is, as drugs are moving towards the development phase
and into development, which is where we're starting to test them, potentially test them
in humans for the first time, we get involved. We're, I would say, data science, biostatistics,
and programming, doing all the statistical work to ensure that things are working, that things are
safe on what is initially the first couple of phases of drug development, which are where we
have a few patients, maybe up tens or hundreds, a couple of hundreds maybe. And then that passes
on to full development, where there's a lot more time involved and effort in bringing these things
to the market. But prior to my role here, I was also working in drug discovery, which is where
we'll do a lot of work in trying to identify the molecules that will become medicines that will
then move into development as well. And one last thing, there's an enormous attrition rate
as you move, as you start in discovery, moving towards development. So most of the things that
you work on, certainly from a discovery and early development perspective, most of the things that
you work on don't make it to the market for one reason or another.
Interesting. Okay. Yeah. Usually when I hear the word attrition rate, I'm used to talking to a lot of people,
analytics folks, and that's people leaving a company, right, is attrition, or leaving a team,
leaving positions. But this is attrition of potential molecules, right? Like this is like
the things that are viable, that the pool of them get less and less as you move on. Well, I wanted to
let everybody know a quick little like a short list of topics that we could ask Harvey about.
I've never done this before, but I think it might be helpful just to help us like build context
around these questions. And that is questions about RFARMA. If you've heard about RFARMA at
all, if you've been to the RFARMA conference, if you know what the RFARMA community is,
or if you don't know, we can ask Harvey about that. We can also talk about Harvey's journey
into data science because it is a little bit non-traditionally, doesn't have a statistics
background or a computational background. And I think that there are a lot of people here who
could identify with that as well. There are some questions that we could ask about career advice.
Harvey's been in the field for a very, very long time. And Harvey also has a special place in his
heart for automated processes and the way that that can sort of alter your career. So Harvey,
I would love to just get started by asking you to describe a little bit about RFARMA
and how it got started. Sure. Yeah. So
RFARMA is essentially a community. So becoming what is now some of a large community, I would say.
We started in 2017. In 2017, our industry, the pharma industry was at a point where
people were starting to get interested in the use of open source. And just to caveat this,
pharma traditionally has used SAS for statistical programming. And that was starting to become a
movement to see, well, could R be used instead of SAS? And where could it be used? And would it be
advantageous to move in these kinds of directions? So several people from multiple companies were
starting to dabble in this area. And there wasn't really a forum where people could connect,
could talk about it, could share information. So a few people got together through partly
through Phil Boucher from Posit, which was then, back in the day, our studio, who helped
pull people together, pull some like-minded people together. And we decided to put together a
conference, the first one in 2018, so that people could share what they've been working on.
And the first conference was at Harvard University. Harvard were really nice.
They gave us a space where we could use. Pulled together, there were about 150 people
for two days. And it went really well. And we repeated it in 2019.
And then in 2020, we were looking to make it a little bit bigger, so that more people could
come, more people could share. We then came across COVID, like everyone else, and pivoted to what has
since then become an online, a virtual conference. And we've just gone on from there. So
we also do a face-to-face summit once a year. We try and tag this onto PositConf.
And really, what the group is, is it's just a large community of people who are all like-minded,
want to work within open source, want to use open source within the industry. But also, I would say
that it's not only people from the pharma and biotech industries. It's open to everyone.
We just use this as a really a focus on some of the presentations and the tools. But really,
it's a large community that's open to everyone. I love that. It's something that I tell everybody.
Like, you don't have to be in pharma to go to the rPharma conference and to go to the workshops and
get a lot out of them. I'm not in pharma at all. I have a business background. I attend rPharma.
I go to the workshops. I watch the lectures. I mean, it's so much fun. I highly encourage
everybody to go check it out. Okay, Harvey, we have so many questions coming in. Let's
go ahead and start getting some questions from Slido. So the most popular question in Slido is
actually, what data science projects do you do for fun? You mentioned that you do data science
for funsies. What do you got? Yeah. Oh, God. So I just, I'm a big fan of R, of Python,
of other languages. I'm trying, I'm teaching myself Go at the moment. So that's a fun experience.
Really, it's just finding data from a day-to-day point of view and playing around with it.
So we have things, obviously, things like the Tidy Tuesday. If, when it comes to December,
I always try and do as much of Advent of Code as possible. If anyone does that, that's a lot of fun.
Especially to learn a new language. I'm playing around with Gen AI, just like everyone else
probably is, as much as possible. But trying to do it from playing with the APIs and from a
programming perspective. So for example, it doesn't sound like fun, but one of the things I'm trying
to do with the AI side, and I've seen this done by other people too, is to take all the information
from my, from our, for example, bank and credit card statements, and give me an idea as to what
we're spending and where, and how we can do better. And doing it using local LLMs, so nothing's going
out. So the idea of being able to do this all locally, that's just one of the things. Plus,
just little snippets of code whenever I can. I try and push them out, I try and blog them out
wherever possible, because I find that it ends up as a repository that I can go back to at any point
to find what I did. Which is so nice, yeah. Your GitHub turns into your own little code library.
It's another thing I highly recommend. I have a banking background, and I attempt to do my own
financial analysis all the time, and I'm always stumped by the messiness of sick codes. I don't
know if anybody else has run into that or not, where the little code that tells you what the
industry of the business is, so basically where you're spending your money, is so frustrating.
Especially if you do a lot of buying through PayPal or Amazon or Chewy for pet products. A lot
of things can be very confusing when they get through those filters. All right, let's do another
question from Slido. These questions have been rolling in here. A big one is around SaaS,
and there are several questions that kind of mention this, so let's do this one as a summary.
I have a question from Gregory Power. Gregory, if you are available,
I would love it if you could ask your question live. Yeah, of course.
Hey! I work for a municipality in SaaS's backyard. I won't disclose which one.
Anywho, yeah, how was it transitioning from SaaS, and how is it migrating from this
monolith of infrastructure? Because you're talking to someone who had to restart all
three of their servers this morning because our SaaS cluster went down.
So I can speak probably from an, you know, somewhat from an industry perspective as opposed
to an internal perspective, because we're, I would say we're going through it at the moment.
Other companies have gone through it, and there are lots of companies within the industry
at various stages of going through it, and lots of people are, I would say,
not really stumbling along the route, but it can be a little bit challenging.
I would say that within the pharma industry, if you look at some companies, for example, GSK,
Roche have done a lot of work, and they've actually presented and put out a lot of work on
the transition. One of the biggest challenges, I would say,
rather than an infrastructure perspective, is a training perspective,
especially when you've got people who have been using something like SaaS for a long time. Just
the thought process of how you would approach a problem coming from more of a
more traditional programming language approach is quite different.
And you also, when we're looking at moving, or when we're looking as an industry, moving from
from SaaS to R, or transitioning SaaS to R, I would say there's more to it than that. It's more
transitioning from, as you put it, a monolithic type approach to something that is,
to something that is more of an open source approach, where we're not talking about just R,
we're talking about using, maybe using Git, or something else for versioning,
for version control, looking into where CICD can step in. So it's this concept of
bringing people along who might be used to working in one way for a very long time,
to what you might call more modern approaches. And that's a, it's an interesting journey to take
people on. And certainly, you know, the Git concept, or the GitLab, GitHub, Bitbucket
concept, when you show someone how they can do it just with their own code, how they can manage it
so much better, you tend to have people coming along for this journey. So that's one of the
things I'd say. I like that. It's focused on the advantages that you see on a personal level first,
and then transition that into like, we could be doing this on an organizational level,
or a team level, or whatever it is. It sounds like there are a lot of people in the chat who
are in some way familiar with the SaaS to R, or SaaS to Python journey, or even the Stata to R,
or Stata to Python journey, depending on where they're coming from. Thank you, Gregory,
for that great question. I have another question from Lulu. Would you like to unmute and ask your
question? And hi, Lulu. Nice to see you. Good to see you too, Libby. Thank you. So, you know,
Harvey, part of your intro and part of the description for this talk is that you'd like
to automate processes, you'd like to make workflows easier. And so I was curious,
how is Gen AI either affecting that now? Or how is that affecting the future?
Okay, so let me take a step back and give an example of an old one. Because I think we,
many of us in data science, or working in data science, have probably had experiences like this.
I've probably had experiences like this. So I worked in a group
where I was working on a biomarker analysis. And in this one example, I had a colleague come
over from Germany to visit. And he was working in a completely different group.
He was working with bioreactors. And he had a setup with an experiment with 48 bioreactors.
And they collected a whole bunch of data over a period of time. And they analyzed it with an Excel
workbook. So he showed me an Excel workbook that had 48 sheets with data in. And the data
did not start in the top left-hand corner. There was some notes coming down. And then you had
tables of data for the first 48 sheets. And then the next 20 or 30 were charts that they'd made
by hand. And it had taken someone about three months, I was told, to work on this.
So this was an example where I could take something and say, well, we can't get the raw data,
but we can pull the data out from the Excel. We can put it together in a shiny dashboard.
And we can just look at all the graphs and look at all the charts. And two things happen. One is,
it took me one hour to do this over lunch. And secondly, it took me one hour and a half to do
this. And secondly, I found mistakes in their copying and pasting of formulae from cell to cell.
So as I say, it was about three months worth of work to get to this point, which could have been
saved easily. And I think we've all had situations like this. And the nice thing about this is, it
took someone who was a lab scientist. And actually, they went back and it turned them
into a data scientist, because they started to learn R and Python to be able to do these things.
This is one of the many, many examples. I hope we get to others. But to your question, Lou,
how is Gen AI going to do this? How is Gen AI going to contribute to this? I think it's going
to contribute hugely. I think what it's going to do is, what we've had the opportunity to do is,
as data scientists in the past, is to take some of this mundane stuff and
replace it with an automated process that's much more efficient, much faster. With Gen AI,
we now have tools at our disposal that are going to be able to do this even more efficiently.
So I know people, it goes back and forth in the conversation with Gen AI. Is it a replacement?
I look at this more as a tool. This is another tool in our box that we'll be able to use.
One of the nice things it will be able to do is, when you come to, say, a data automation task,
we'll be able to put things in place using these kinds of tools that can check that what we've got
in place is working as we expect it as well. So I see these kinds of tools really speeding up the
process, really helping moving forward and becoming more robust. I like that. It reminds me of our
conversation with Jay Timmerman at Biogen, where he really suggested everybody take a more practical
approach to thinking about Gen AI. Like, what are these really, really sort of boring, mundane,
practical things that can be fixed and improved and think of it less in a magical, sparkly way?
Thank you so much, Lou, for the fantastic question.
Can I just have one quick follow-up, which is, so thank you, Harvey. That was great.
And I strongly agree with the point of, like, it's another tool. It's not a replacement for
data science. But you mentioned the spreadsheet that had errors in it. I know everyone's shocked
here that there was a complex spreadsheet with errors in it. No one has seen that before.
But a lot of people are paranoid about Gen AI. So just can you comment on, in terms of when you talk
trying to introduce Gen AI, is there, I mean, is there a lot of pushback from, oh no, we can't trust
it because of hallucinations? Or is there more openness than that? I'd say within our company,
and I'd say within the industry as a whole, people are starting to approach it. So there's caution.
The pharma industry is somewhat risk averse anyway, as an industry.
People are starting to use it more. It's being encouraged more to use on a day-to-day basis.
And what we're seeing is that people are starting to use it to automate and to speed up some of
their day-to-day work. So for example, something as simple as summarize a meeting so that I don't
have to read through. And I feel that as people start to get more and more on board with that,
we're going to find more and more of a move through. I feel like the industry as a whole
is going to be somewhat protective of throwing all of their data into this. And I would say that
most companies, you know, the few that I know working in the area have something where you've
got certain business rules in place. So do not put your data into something that's going out.
But utilize these kinds of things to make your day-to-day work more effective, more efficient.
And that's where we are at the moment. Now, where things move in the future is, you know, we've seen
so much growth within the last year or two, who can tell. But I see us getting to a point where
we're going to be using the tools a lot more. I love it. Mike, I know that you have a little bit
of perspective here as well. Mike is at Pfizer. Would you like to chime in? Yeah, actually, it's
kind of based on what Harvey was just saying about sharing proprietary information externally
in public-facing LLMs. I'm guessing, you know, I know at Pfizer we have kind of internal LLM models
for dealing with stuff. I'd be interested to know from folks in the call whether, maybe in the chat,
whether they have for within their companies, if they're going outside to public-facing
chat GPT or Claude or that kind of stuff, or whether they have similar internal engineering.
Harvey, did you want to touch on that? Or does anybody in the chat have anything to share?
I'd say a combination. It's partly dependent on what you need.
We certainly have the public-facing with big disclaimer of do not put business
information in there. And then we have internal, more ring tanks to be able to
to experiment with some stuff internally too. I see some talk in the chat, Stephanie saying
totally against policy to use external tools, internally hosted ones only, and I'm seeing a lot
of agreement there in some sort of feedback, emoji feedback. I think a lot of places have
maybe within the past year implemented some AI use policies, right? Maybe you can chime in
in the chat and let us know what your org is telling you to do or not do with your LLM use.
I have a question that I would love to just pivot a little bit to that's career-oriented, Harvey.
Are you in the position of hiring and building teams and stuff? And if you are, there is someone
in the chat who asked an anonymous question and it says, how do you recommend structuring
our data science portfolios or projects to communicate what you're working on, especially
when people are looking for Python or SAS users and you're an RE user? And they say that they
would love feedback from the chat too. So if you're in the chat and you have tips on this,
please add them. So I'm not in a hiring position at the moment, but there are, I believe,
opportunities within our company, certainly within the industry as a whole. And I'd say
this is a very exciting time within the pharma industry to work within data science because
the, as I said, the whole industry is going through this modernization of tooling
thing. So if the question was more along, how do you, is it more along the lines of
building a portfolio, would you say? Yeah, I think so. So how do you structure your
data science portfolio to communicate your value when you're an RE user versus a SAS or
Python user? I think that the feeling of this question is that people who are hiring are
looking for everybody except for me. I've sort of felt that way as well at different times. Maybe
people in the chat can identify with this where you're like, oh, it seems like every position
is hiring for this thing that I don't have, right, or this skill that I don't have. So maybe just
some general tips on standing out as an applicant for a data science position with your portfolio.
Yeah, that's a good thing. See, I've approached this as someone who has a broad knowledge of
a lot of languages. So I would say I'm somewhat of a specialist in R. I do a lot of work in Python,
but I've also done a lot of work in working with database systems, different types of databases,
and things outside of the language itself. So for example, working with SQL or Mongo or other
types of database technologies, you can somewhat stand out by having a broad knowledge across
several different types of technologies. Even if you're not an expert in them,
being able to utilize these within a language. So for example, working with databases within
Python and R, there are lots of packages that you can use to work with these data structures,
and some more modern ones too. The other thing I'd say is that within our industry and within
data science as a whole, contributing to open source projects is a huge thing to get your
name out there. Lots of nods from the Zoom grid right now, by the way, if anyone's
just listening. I think I'm probably preaching to the choir to many people on this call.
There are so many projects that you can either contribute to, or you can start up your own
and put it out there and try and gain some traction on it. But just by starting, just taking
on some issues, even just responding, even just creating an issue is something to start the ball
rolling. And as you do so, you find, we've got this community, we talked about the Iron Pharma
community, you start to become part of other communities. And one of the things I would say,
having worked for many years now, is that being part of a community and knowing people within
the community, having people to reach out to, is a really good way to start to get going
in a career, or even if you're halfway through a career.
100%, 150% agree with everything Harvey just said. And to sort of gather a little bit of input
from the chat, Mike says, build a portfolio on GitHub, even if it's just Heidi Tuesday
examples or pet projects. Absolutely do that. I would say any way that you can work out loud,
it does not have to be perfect. It can be very, very intimidating when you're just getting started.
You feel like you have to be the best at something. I encourage you to be exactly who you are,
where you are right now, and do that out loud and show your willingness to learn things,
to be bad at things. All of that stuff is very, very valuable.
Mike says it doesn't have to be polished. It just has to be honest.
I will second that, Heidi Tuesday. I've been doing Piety Tuesday. I'm a much heavier R user
than I am a Python user, but I've been using Python since grad school. And so I'm challenging
myself to do Piety Tuesday in Python right now and sharing it with the Piety Tuesday hashtag on
Blue Sky or LinkedIn or wherever I am. And if you see my stuff, you'll see it's very much not
perfect or polished. I'm not even sharing my code all the time because I'm giving myself 30 minutes
to do something. Get out there and do that and find some people who are willing to do that with
you. All right. Thank you so much for that anonymous question. That was great. Rohan,
you have a question on here that has risen to the top with votes. Would you like to unmute and ask
it? Yeah. Can you guys hear me? Great. So my question is, what are the differences in approach
and philosophy regarding data analysis, statistical testing, and machine learning
when working in drug discovery versus drug development? Most of my work is in the discovery
section for context in my work. Okay. I would say, so development is far more structured in
its approach than discovery. My experience in discovery has always been you're certainly much
freer to experiment with something new, to dive into something very different, completely new.
So one example of the type of approach would be that in drug development, we're very concerned
about validation all the way through. Are you comfortable enough to say that
you're very confident with every step of the way that you have documentation to back it up
and we have very strict rules and SOPs as to how to move? In discovery, you're in a much more open
environment. So just the example of a new R package comes out, it would be very easy to pull
that into a discovery setting. It would be more challenging to pull that into a development
setting unless you've run some internal testing, some internal validation to say that
you and the company are happy for you to move that way. So I'd say it's one of the biggest things.
I'd also say along the lines we touched on AI, I'd say that certainly if you look at the AI work
that has been done, the discovery community took to it faster than the development
community. Although there are some things going on within the development community that will
will be catching up to that. Thank you, Harvey. Great question, Rohan, as always. I love Rohan's
questions. Speaking of someone whose questions I always love, Arsenis, would you like to unmute
and ask your question? Sure. Thanks so much, Libby. And thank you, Harvey, for joining us today.
My question here, I think Libby, you're referring to the one that's at the top right now. I actually
have two in there. The one that's at the top. I'll put it in the chat as well. Cool. So I'm
gonna go with that one. Harvey, my question is that is about automating processes. So sometimes
automating a process is kind of a thing that you discover that you can do while you're doing
something that's like a main track project. But there's no time allocated for you to kind of
shoot off to the side and take on this other project. So when you're not the boss, for example,
how do you talk people into letting you take time to go on and automate that when you don't know
that there necessarily will be like benefits from it? Yeah, that's an interesting one. So
really, and I'll give another example of this. A group that I used to be in a previous company,
we had some really, really smart people working in the lab and we could collect
data called mass spectrometry data. So it was high quality lab data. It would take
about three days to collect the data and it would take about three weeks to analyze it.
And the analysis took so long, partly because people were moving between seven pieces of
software. So what you often find, I love the look on your face when I say that, what you often find
is that, certainly going back a little while, the equipment manufacturers, lab equipment
manufacturers are very good at making high quality equipment and they're good at making
software that can capture data, but they don't traditionally have not invested a huge amount
in how you would analyze that data afterwards for specific experiments. So rather than go through
seven pieces of software, of which one was Excel in the middle, so data was copied to Excel,
calculations were performed. It was then taken from there to something else. So this
upset me to say the least when I first saw it. And it didn't take long to write within spare time.
This was actually within spare time to write a pipeline in R. And this was at the very start,
this was really early on with Shiny. So Shiny was just coming out. I said, I can write something in
one language, in one workflow that can do it. And it can automate a lot of what we're doing or what
the group was doing by hand. And in fact, I actually saw, I was working in a different
group. I saw what was going on here and I asked to join this group to help with this kind of
approach. And we reduced the time, the analysis time from three weeks down to one hour. And I'll
I'll give one, I'll give one other example because it's very much related within the same group.
Another group was collecting data and we, what we did was wanted to automate the data preparation
as well. So we wanted to use the hardware automation with robotics and the analysis
automation at the end of it. And I had a lot of skeptics when we did this.
But we did it as a proof of concept to show we can match the way it's being done by hand. So you
had someone in the lab pipetting by hand samples, running the samples, and then doing the analysis
by hand. And the data preparation by robot wasn't as fast as someone doing it by hand.
But the point is, it could run overnight. It could run 24 hours. So we could do that.
You didn't need to sleep or take naps.
Exactly. And you then do the analysis afterwards. And I did this and we had thousands of samples
and it would take about a week to analyze by hand. We did the analysis. We showed that for
most of the samples, our robot could pipette as accurate as a human. And when we did the data
analysis for most of the samples, or for all of the samples, it could pipette as accurate.
And for the analysis, most of them were within less than 1% of a human. Except for two samples,
which seemed ridiculously out. So I went back through all the calculations. I went back through
all the analysis. And I couldn't find out what was wrong. And it was getting to the point where
I was getting incredibly frustrated at myself for not being able to spot something that must
have been an obvious bug. So I asked to see the raw data, because they'd given me the data from
the machine that was part processed. And I looked at the raw data and it didn't match what I had.
And then I looked at what they'd given me that was part processed. And they'd switched two of
the names of the samples around. So it was a human error that had led to me not matching
the results exactly. When we switched them back, it matched exactly. And this is another human
error that would have been carried through. So if you can show, A, that you can speed things up,
and most importantly, that you can remove the errors that crop in a day-to-day. And I think
it was Lou who touched on who hasn't seen errors in an Excel spreadsheet. If you can remove,
if you can show that you've removed that error, then that is when people start to look and get
interested. And you end up with two complete opposite, or in my experience, two complete
opposite ways of responding to this. You never get apathy. You either get, this is the most amazing
thing I've ever seen in my life. We have to implement it immediately. Or this is the scariest
thing I've ever seen in my life. And it's coming from my job. And I want to hide it.
Oh my goodness. I will say, sometimes it's Excel's fault. Maybe you've given it something
that looks like a date. I always tell people, just don't open that in Excel. Don't do it.
Just don't open that CSV file in Excel and re-save it. Thank you so much, Arsenes, for the fantastic
question. And I have a question here that's a two-parter from Noor. And Noor, I would like
you to pick one of your questions. You have two in there. I'll let you pick one to ask.
That's just really mean, okay? Since the first one arguably has kind of been touched on in various
ways a little bit, I will go with the second one, which is, hi, my name is Noor. I'm a biopharmacist.
What are recommendations for folks who are trying to pivot into the pharma sphere,
for people who have a biopharmacist and or stat background? Or just in general,
for people who are trying to pivot into the pharma sphere, especially if they don't come
from pharma experience, what would you recommend, et cetera, et cetera? I will take myself offline.
Thanks, Noor. Okay. So if you're coming in from the…
Obviously, with the data science hangout, we're looking at and thinking about data science.
There are, I would say, several online resources. And there was a shout out to group at Roche,
who did clinical… I'm trying to think exactly what it is. Someone might be able to put it in
the chat. A clinical data science course on Coursera that's available to take, which is a
really great way that explains some from the clinical data science and reporting side of things.
That's certainly a good entry point to get a feel for some of what's out there. I would also say
that as well as the community that we've got, the Iron Pharma one, and once again, everyone's
welcome to come and come to all the workshops that we put on, which will help bring people up
to speed. There's the Pharmaverse group, which is essentially a group of people, many of whom
work in the pharma industry, developing our packages to try and solve common problems.
That's a great organization to get involved in. And there's plenty of open source development
work going on there. If you want to, if you're looking to be able to contribute to packages
within an environment and within a community that can help, you know, make the connections that you
might need to get into the pharma space. Once again, it comes back to something that's cropped
up before. It helps build your portfolio as well. It shows an interest in the space
and will certainly help move things along. Thank you, Harvey. Noor, thank you for asking that
wonderful question. And let's see what else we have got on board here, because we only have about
10 minutes left and it's really more like eight. I have the same question as Cecilia. So Cecilia,
I would love it if you could ask your question. Hi, hello. So my question, I think I was a bit
hooked about the background part, but I really didn't understand what was your background. Maybe
I missed it. But the real question is about like how or how much is our pharma different from other
R related fields? And I think it's because I always had like R usage in a certain field. And
I am just curious about how it's different in different fields. I don't know if you have any
insights. So I don't think I went through my background. So just real brief.
My background is in chemistry, not in data science, not in computational. But I grew up
in the 1980s when personal computers were coming out. So I'm the generation that really got stuck
into personal computers when I was in my teens. And so it stuck with me all the way through the
concept of always using coding to solve problems. So that's where that came from. And so every step
through when I was in different types of chemistry and chemical development and biomarkers,
it was always, well, can we write the code to do this for us? I want to be able to sit back
and watch it happen. And believe it or not, my goal has, it's a crazy thing to say,
my goal has always been can I automate myself out of a job and then move on to another one?
So it's always can I get to the point of it's doing what I would do.
To the second point, that the Iron Pharma Group, it came about, as I mentioned, to really focus
within the pharma industry, which was certainly at that time going through a transition and still is
going through a transition. And it was always this idea of can we build a community of people
working in the same way, coming across the same problems? And the thing that comes to mind,
there's a law, I'm just trying to think of it, I think it's called Joy's Law, which was named
after Bill Joy, who used to be the CEO of Sun Microsystems. And he said his law was something
along the lines of the smartest people don't work for you, or the smartest people are not in the
room. And it's a law based on the fact that no one company can have all of the smartest people.
Because knowledge is dispersed, knowledge by its very definition is dispersed. And it's also
what's known as sticky. Because knowledge tends to stay in certain places. The group we tried to
form and all the others, it's an attempt to take on this concept of, in a way of open source,
which is, can we bring everything together? Can we share everything? Can everyone contribute?
Our group isn't really different to other R groups. In that aspect, we tend to focus a little
bit more on the pharma problems. But we have workshops where we would be looking at different,
more general R packages, as well as some of the more focused ones.
Thank you, Harvey. I really love that you have a unique background. And I think that a lot of
people here will say the same, that they came to data science sideways before data science was a
thing. Maybe everybody can share in the chat what their background is, whether that was their first
set of jobs or what their undergrad or master's degree is in. Because I know some of these faces
I'm looking at have sociology degrees. Some of them have psychology degrees. And a lot of my
professors in my undergrad, which was very, very focused on business analytics and mathematical
optimization for business, were educational psychology professors, actually. And they're
where I learned the bulk of my data science skills. Harvey, you have touched on it a little
bit here and there with some words of wisdom. But we always ask everybody at the Hangout for a piece
of career advice. Is there a little bit of career advice that has been really meaningful or helpful
to you or that you like to give out? I would say, and I think this has come out probably a
thousand times before, which is find what you really like doing and do it. It's really simple.
In a previous position, I used to come in on a, for example, I used to come in on a Monday morning
and I would see people looking so miserable. And I'd ask, why do you look so sad? And they'd
complain, well, it's Monday morning. And whereas I'm coming in, I couldn't, sometimes I couldn't
wait to get out of bed on a Monday and come back to do the thing that I love. And this is why
playing with data and coding and stuff is my passion outside of work too.
And I'm sure a lot of people on the call probably feel the same way. We love what we do
and just keep doing it until you don't enjoy it anymore and then find something else that you
enjoy. So that would be, I guess it's not really career advice, but the way I look at it is
this is where I'm spending most of my waking time. So you better be doing something that you really,
really enjoy. Thank you, Harvey. And for anybody who's just listening,
I wish you can see the chat right now because it is so full of all of these different people
chiming in and saying where they were working, what they were doing, what their degrees are in.
And very few of them are statistics degrees. Very few of them are what you would think of as a
really traditional data science degree. You've got atmospheric science. We've got math. We've
got education, political science, sociology, psychology. We have Joey saying janitor at
the movie theater. Joey's quick stop as a sociologist along the way was not that quick
because I know Joey. Thank you so much for everybody for sharing all of your bits and
pieces. Now we have two minutes left, so I think we better say goodbye to Harvey. Say thank you so
much, Harvey, for spending time with us. Thank you, everybody, for all of your wonderful and amazing
questions. We could not get to all of them. There are a handful that are leftover, but some of them
got touched on along the way. Thank you so much for having me. Absolutely. It was wonderful
spending time with you, everybody. I hope you enjoy your Thursday. I hope you enjoy the rest
of your week and that you come back and hang out with us again next week. We will have Nick
Wan with us, the Senior Director of Baseball Analytics for the Cincinnati Reds. So if you are
interested in sports analytics at all or streaming because Nick Wan is also a streamer. You might
know him from things like Sliced or VizBuzz. If anybody has heard or heard of that, Nick is
a ton of fun. I can't wait to talk with him next week on the day before my birthday. It'll be a
good fun. All right, everybody. I will let everybody drop off, give you a couple more
seconds here to save the chat if you would like to. The three dots on the top of your chat allow
you to click and say save chat. That way you don't lose all of these wonderful resources.
Thank you, Libby. Thank you, Harvey. Have a great rest of the day, everybody.
Thanks. Bye, everybody.
Bye.